Copyright (c) 2004-2005 The Trustees of Indiana University and Indiana
                        University Research and Technology
                        Corporation.  All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2004-2005 The University of Tennessee and The University
                        of Tennessee Research Foundation.  All rights
                        reserved.
Copyright (c) 2004-2005 High Performance Computing Center Stuttgart, 
                        University of Stuttgart.  All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2004-2005 The Regents of the University of California.
                        All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2006      Cisco Systems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
$COPYRIGHT$

Additional copyrights may follow

$HEADER$


What is this software?
----------------------

This is the MPI Testing Tool (MTT) software package.  It is a
standalone tool for testing the correctness and performance of
arbitrary MPI implementations.

The MTT is an attempt to create a single tool to download and build a
variety of different MPI implementations, and then compile and run any
number of test suites against each of the MPI installations, storing
the results in a back-end database that then becomes available for
historical data mining.  The test suites can be for both correctness
and performance analysis (e.g., tests such as nightly snapshot compile
results as well as the latency of MPI_SEND can be historically
archived with this tool).

The MTT is basically a front-end to the excellent Perfbase tool (see
http://perfbase.tigris.org/) for storing all the results and creating
reports from the data.  The value-added for the MTT is all the glue to
download, compile, and run the tests, then submitting all the data to
a centralized Perfbase install.  Simply put, this is a common
infrastructure that can be distributed to many different sites to run
a common set of tests against a group of MPI implementations that all
feed into a common Perfbase database of results.

The main (loose) requirements that we had for the MTT are:

- Use the Perfbase software for the back-end database / archival
  system.
- Ability to obtain arbitrary MPI implementations from a variety of
  sources (web/FTP download, filesystem copy, Subversion export,
  etc.).
- Ability to install the obtained MPI implementations, regardless of
  whether they are source or binary distributions.  For source
  distributions, include the ability to compile each MPI
  implementation in a variety of different ways (e.g., with different
  compilers and/or compile flags).
- Ability to obtain arbitrary test suites from a variety of sources
  (web/FTP download, filesystem copy, Subversion export, etc.).
- Ability to build each of the obtained test suites against each of
  the MPI implementation installations (e.g., for source MPI
  distributions, there may be more than one installation).
- Ability to run each of the built test suites.
- Ability to record the output from each of the steps above and
  submit securely them to a centralized Perfbase database.
- Ability to run each of the steps above on physically different
  machines.  For example, some sites may require running the
  obtain/download steps on machines that have general internet access,
  running the compile/install steps on dedicated compile servers,
  running the MPI tests on dedicated parallel resources, and then
  running the final submit steps on machines that have general
  internet access.
- Use a component-based system (i.e., plugins) for the above steps so
  that extending the system to download (for example) a new MPI
  implementation is simply a matter of writing a new module with a
  well-defined interface.


Current status
--------------

This tool was initially developed by the Open MPI team for nightly and
periodic compile and regression testing.  However, enough other
parties have expressed [significant] intrest that we have open-sourced
the tool and are eagerly accepting input from others.  Indeed, having
a common tool to help objectively evaluate MPI implementations may be
an enormous help to the High Performance Computing (HPC) community at
large.

We have no illusions of MTT becoming the be-all/end-all tool for
testing software -- we do want to keep it somewhat focused on the
needs and requires of testing MPI implementations.  As such, the usage
flow is somewhat structured towards that bias.

As of December 2005, the software is nowhere near release quality.
Until this point, it has been developed internally to the Open MPI
project by two of its team members with no input from anyone else.  It
more-or-less does what we need it to do, but is lacking:

- a significant amount of polish
- documentation
- testing in a wide variety of environments
- plugins for a wide variety of MPI implementations and test suites
- input from others

Hence, long before we reach 1.0, we have reached a somewhat-stable
point and now want to open this project up to external input and
contributions.


License
-------

Because we want MTT to be a valuable resource to the entire HPC
community, the MTT uses the new BSD license -- see the LICENSE file in
the MTT distribution for details.


Get involved
------------

We *want* your feedback.  We *want* you to get involved.

The main web site for the MTT is:

    http://www.open-mpi.org/software/mtt/

The best way to report bugs, send comments, ask questions, and
generally get involved is to sign up on the MPI Testing Tool mailing
list:

     mtt@open-mpi.org

Because of spam, only subscribers are allowed to post to this list
(ensure that you subscribe with and post from exactly the same e-mail
address -- joe@example.com is considered different than
joe@mycomputer.example.com!).  Visit this page to subscribe to the
list:

     http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/mtt

Thanks for your time.
